# Kitprise
A simple command line operated text adventure game

This is a game I made for my wife as a birthday present earlier this year. The name comes from "Kitty Surprise", even while there are not exactly kitties in the game. It's a command line operated text adventure game where you can move on a X,Y grid and interact with items (pickable & usable) and fixed objects (usable but non-movable). The game is in Finnish and it's fairly short and simple. No background or purpose is explained, but there is an ending. Content has quite a few inside jokes, so for a random trespasser many things might go past without meaning.

Every gameplay time is different in such fashion that all location descriptions (which are purely cosmetic) are randomly generated by two word lists. Also item & object locations are random, and it's possible to generate endlessly edible food that give variating arguably comical results. The engine allows items to be picked and used both just on spot or by targetting something (in case use combination exists in the room, the item is used on something). Game area is scalable, but it is always just a grid with no movement restrictions outside the maximum limit on X or Y axis. There is also an inbuilt cheat mode where item locations etc. can be seen for debugging, however, that should be activated by adjusting the code.

Finally I made a small "scripting" function to make actual content adding smooth. New items and objects with their interactions can be added basically just by adding the item name to a list, required item/effect descptions into final variables and then a new item interaction chain as an array variable. The scripting instructions are kind of written in the code before USE_EFFECTS array. 

The code is not much commented. I did the engine and game with haste in few evenings, because I had a deadline but I needed to do it while the present receiver was asleep in order to keep the surprise element, so this time I just had to leap over the fence at its lowest. Another reason for lack of commentary is that it's meant originally just for private use, and hence I figured I can read my own code. I know this is often not the case a moment after finishing the code. Nevertheless, apart from one oversized and unnecessarily complicatedly built function that should've been refactored had I worked longer, I think it's fairly clearly written code after all.

Commands in Finnish:
o = ohje (tämä teksti)
p = liiku pohjoiseen
e = liiku etelään
i = liiku itään
l = liiku länteen
q = lopeta peli
n = poimi (nosta) esine (listan ensimmäinen)
t = tiputa esine
m = mukanasi olevat tavarat
k = käytä esinettä

Commands translated:
o = instructions (this text)
p = move to north
e = move to south
i = move to east
l = move to west
q = quit game
n = pick up an item (first of the list, in case multiple ones around)
t = drop an item (last one picked first)
m = stuff carried along (prints a list)
k = use an item (select from list - both for items and objects)
